## Finance Basics

### 1. Financial Transactions Learning Series

### 2. Wealth Management 101 <br>
*4/16/23* <br>
AUM: Asset Under Management refers to the total market value of all the assets, such as stocks, bonds, real estate, and other investments, that are being managed by financial institution on behalf of its clients. AUM is a metric to gauge the size of success of investment firms.

*4/17/23* <br>
Funds: Funds manage pooled investments that are gathered from various investors and use the capital to invest in different assets or securities. Funds can be classified into mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and others. <br> <br>
Venture Capital: VC invests/provides funds in early-stage, high-potential, growth companies in exchange for equity or ownership stake. VC firms not only provide capital but also offer strategic guidance, mentorship, and networking opportunities to help their portfolio companies grow and succeed. <br><br>
Trading Firms: Trading firms trade financial instruments (e.g. stocks, bonds, commodities, currencies, or derivatives) to generate profits using their own capital. They often use sophisticated technology and quantitative models to identify and exploit market inefficiencies or short-term price movements. <br>

*4/25/23*
### 3. Corporate Finance - Damodaran
##### Chapter 1 The Foundations
* Debt vs Equity <br/>
  - Bondholders generally have first claim on cash flows but receive fixed interest payments, assuming that the firm makes enough income to meet its debt obligations. Equity investors have a claim on the cash flows that are left over but have the option in publicly traded firms of declaring bankruptcy if the firm has insufficient cash flows to meet its financial obligations. Bondholders do not get to participate on the upside if the projects succeed but bear a significant portion of the cost if they fail. As a consequence, bondholders tend to view decisions that increase risk much more negatively than stockholders, who are more inclined to factor
in the upside.
  - Examples of conflict: increases in dividends, on average, lead to higher stock prices; bond prices, on the other hand, react negatively to dividend increases and positively to dividend cuts. The reason is - dividend payments (and stock buybacks) reduce the cash available to a firm, thus making debt more risky.
  - Focusing on maximizing stockholder wealth may result in stockholders taking perverse actions that harm the overall firm but increase their wealth at the expense of bondholders.
* Three fundamental principles
  - __The Investment Principle__: measure the return on a proposed investment decision and compare it to <ins> a minimum acceptable hurdle rate (hurdle rate) </ins> to decide whether the project is acceptable.
  - __The Financing Principle__: determine the optimal mix of debt and equity to fund operations
  - __The Dividend Principle__: returns the excess cash to owners when the cash flows generated by existing investments is greater than the funds needed to take on good investments.
##### Chapter 2 The Objective in Decision Making
*4/28/23* <br/>
* Fighting hostile acquisitions
  - Greenmail: A Practice in corporate finance where an investor, typically a corporate raider, buys a significant stake in a company and then threatens to take over the company unless the company agrees to buy back the shares at a premium price. It is a form of blackmail that involves the color of money.
  - Golden parachute: an antitakeover device which provides a payment of a lump sum or cash flows over a period, if the manager covered by the contract loses his/her job in a takeover.
  - Poison pills: If a hostile acquirer takes over the firm, stockholders are given the right to buy additional shares at a price much lower than the current stock price. <br/>

*4/29/23*
* Choosing the right objective
  - <ins> Stock price maximazation</ins>, market share maximization, firm value maximization, profitability maximization, etc.
  - Confilcts between managers and stockholders, bondholders and stockholders, managers and society, managers and financial markets, etc. 
##### Chapter 3 The Basics of Risk
* __Treasury Stock__: Shares of a company's own stock that the company has bought back from shareholders and is holding in its own treasury. Treasury stock can be reissued in the future or retired, which reduces the total number of outstanding shares.
* Measuring Risk
  - Terms:
    - Variance / Standard Deviation: the spread of the actual returns around the expected return. The greater the deviation of the actual returns from expected returns, the greater the variance.
    - Skewness: the bias toward positive or negative returns. A positive skewness indicates that the distirbution has a tail that extends to the right, or positive side.
